1  FRESHMEN SEMINAR  Seminar Goals and Requirements   SLOs  Seminar Goal:   Students will join a community of learners and actively  engage in academic and co - curricular exploration. As they do so, they  will develop critical thinking skills necessary to become successful  students and lifelong learners by meaningfully confronting q uestions of  social justice through the course materials and co - curricular  experiences.  Bulletin - Related Requirements:   Freshmen are required to pass this  course.  Students completing Freshman Seminar will be able to:  1.   Identify assumptions rooted in a variety of perspectives.  2.   Interpret and evaluate issues, evidence, and sources.  3.   Communicate effectively about multiple perspectives.  4.   Reflect on and apply knowledge developed in the classroom  and co - curricular experiences.  QUANTITATIVE   REASONING  Course Requirements   SLOs  Course Content Requirements:  Students must use mathematical, statistical, and/or computational  methods to analyze and solve problems involving quantitative  information to make and communicate conclusions based on   such  analyses. Simply learning how to use new technologies, software, or  computer applications is not sufficient.  Bulletin - Related Requirements :  MATH 1312 or higher  Students completing the General Education Quantitative Reasoning  requirement will be able to:  1.   Interpret quantitative information.  2.   Use quantitative methods to solve problems.  3.   Develop conclusions based on quantitative analysis.

2  MODERN LANGUAGE  Course Requirements   SLOs  Bulletin - Related Requirements:  Students are encouraged to   complete their Modern Language  requirements in their first year.  Students who take the modern language placement test in French,  Spanish, Chinese, and German during orientation will enroll in the  course level indicated by the placement test result. There is no formal  placement test for Arabic and Japanese. However, stud ents enrolled in  these courses will be placed in them by their instructor by way of an  exam.  Students completing the General Education Modern Language  requirement will be able to:  1.   Interpret information in authentic messages and informational  texts using listening, reading, and viewing strategies.  ( Interpretive competence - reading, listening/viewing in the target  language)  2.   Interact with others using culturally appropriate language and  gestures to make requests, negotiate meaning through  clarifications, and implement conversation strategies on familiar  and some unfamiliar topics.   (Interpersonal competence -  speaking, listening/viewing, reading, and writing in the target  language)  3.   Present meaningful information, concepts and viewpoints on  familiar and some unfamiliar concepts and viewpoints from  across disciplines using writing processes and presentation  strategies.   (Presentational competence - speaking, writing in the  target language)  4.   Compare social practices from their own culture relative to  those from another culture.   (Cultural competence - reading,  listening/viewing, writing, speaking in the target language)

3  ORAL COMMUNICATION  Course Requirements   SLOs  Other Course Content   Requirements  Every class must require at least 3 major presentations.  Students completing the General Education Oral Communication  requirement will be able to:  1.   Employ a professional speech structure that reinforces the  central message of the presentation with assistance from a well -  constructed outline.   (Organization and Message)  2.   Communicate a central message effectively through insightful  word choice and creative selection of appropriate rhetorical  devices.   (Language)  3.   Deploy a variety of appropriate delivery tools to engage the  audience.   (Delivery)  4.   Offer varied and relevant evidence to support their credibility.  (Supporting Material)

4  WRITING 1  Additional Information   SLOs  SLO 1 can be achieved through any of the following pathways:  ●   The student will reflect on useful strategies for reading  difficult texts.  ●   The   student will reflect on the ethical choices inherent in the  relationship between reading and writing.  ●   The student will identify and explain the rhetorical moves  common to texts.  ●   The student will reference research - based texts in strategic  ways   (including the use of summary, paraphrases, or  quotes).  SLO 2 - 3 can be achieved through any of the following pathways:  ●   The student will analyze writing processes using a  vocabulary that includes terms like audience, purpose,  rhetorical situation, reflection, and revision.  ●   The student will demonstrate awareness of their own  position within the rhetorical situation.  ●   The student will experiment with various heuristics for  composing.  ●   The student will demonstrate how social, rhetorical, and  technological context shape writing conceptions, processes,  rules, and conventions.  SLO 4 - 5 can be achieved through the following pathway:  ●   The student will demonstrate an awareness that choice  about conventions and genre expectations are shaped by  the rhetorical situation, by the particular purpose of a text, its  occasion, and the audience.  Students completing the General Education Writing I requirement will  be able to:  1.   Read, understand, and use a variety of text to support various  writing goals.  2.   Identify and demonstrate an awareness of the writing process  through successive drafts and revisions.  3.   Analyze and respond to various writing situations and  demonstrate appropriate rhetorical and writing choices  4.   Demonstrate an understanding of audience and genre  conventions within their writing  5.   Analyze and respond to substantive issues in their writing that  show global improvement through substantial and successive  revision.

5  WRITING 2  Additional Information   SLOs  SLO 1 can be achieved   through any of the following pathways:  ●   The student will analyze and assess genre, discourse  conventions, rhetorical situation, and argument strategy in  complex texts.  ●   The student will find, analyze, and evaluate research -   and  evidence - based sources for appropriateness, timeliness, and  validity with writing context.  ●   The student will examine the ethical choices associated with  being a member of various discourse communities.  SLO 2 - 4 can be achieved through any of the following pathways:  ●   The student will use acquired vocabulary to talk about research  and writing processes, continuing work with audience, purpose,  and rhetorical situation in light of discourse community and  genre.  ●   The student will demonstrate awareness of their own position  within the rhetorical situation as a member of a targeted  discourse community.  ●   The student will experiment with various heuristics for  researching and writing long - term, research - driven projects.  ●   The student will produce research - based writing relevant to  ongoing conversations.  ●   The student will choose genre and conventions appropriate for  purpose and audience.  SLO 5 can be achieved through the following pathway:  ●   The student will choose genre and conventions appropriate for  purpose and audience.  Bulletin - Related Requirements:  Writing 1 is a prerequisite for Writing 2.  Students completing the General Education Writing 2 requirement will  be able to:  1.   Analyze and understand how and why different discourse  communities produce research using various   conventions  2.   Find and use appropriate resources to support inquiry -   based  research.  3.   Adapt research practices and compose successive and  appropriate writing tasks to varied rhetorical situations, including  discipline - specific audiences and purposes.  4.   Understand and respond to substantive issues in their writing  that show global improvement through substantial and  successive revision  5.   Analyze and produce appropriate texts for a non - academic  audience to demonstrate genre awareness through rhetorical  conventions

6  STUDIES IN THEOLOGY AND RELIGION  SLOs  Students completing the General Education Studies in Theology and  Religion requirement will be able to:  1.   Explain the historical and cultural development of ideas and  beliefs as expressed within a   religious tradition or traditions.  2.   Critically analyze expressions of a religious tradition or traditions  using key disciplinary categories and interpretive methods of  theology and religious studies.  3.   Integrate their study of a religious tradition or traditions with  societal or personal questions of significance.  ETHICS  Course Requirements   SLOs  Other Course Content Requirements:  Courses that satisfy the Ethics requirement are philosophical ethics  courses. Philosophical ethics can be   described as the attempt to think  clearly and deeply about fundamental moral questions that arise for us  as humans. Ethics is concerned with evaluating appropriate action,  proper character, the characteristics of the good life, and what is  involved in acti ng rightly. To study historical and contemporary  philosophical theories is to explore the most enduring positions that  these concerns have addressed.  Students completing the General Education Ethics requirement will be  able to:  1.   Demonstrate working knowledge of contemporary or historical  philosophical ethical theories and ideas.  2.   Critically analyze philosophical ethical theories and ideas.  3.   Compare and contrast philosophical ethical theories and ideas.  4.   Articulate how ethical reasoning informs their   moral beliefs,  decision making, and values.

7  NATURAL SCIENCES  Additional Information   SLOs  Notes, Thoughts, and Examples Related to the Requirement SLOs:  1.   Emphasize the open - ended nature of scientific inquiry.  Understand the centrality of the   scientific method. Sources may  include scientific textbooks, peer - reviewed literature, and/or  popular press. (Cognitive level: comprehension).  2.   Understanding their world through the lens of science.  Differentiate between scientific and non - scientific questions and  investigations as reported in available literature. Distinguish  effectively among conflicting claims allegedly based on scientific  inve stigation. (Cognitive level: analysis).  3.   Doing science! Ultimately students should see themselves as  active participants in science. Demonstrate the ability to suggest  and/or test possible solutions and evaluate the outcomes of  those solutions to authentic, real - world problems through  scientific   investigations in the classroom, laboratory, or  field.   Embedded activities (10 hours required) such as case  and problem - based studies, guided inquiry, simulations,  experiments or other experiential learning opportunities should  be used to frame this compo nent.   (Cognitive level: analysis).  4.   Written reports and/or oral or   poster presentations of science  they have done. (Cognitive level: comprehension).  Other Course Content Requirements:  Experiential learning (10 hours required) is any learning that supports  students in applying their knowledge and conceptual understanding to  real - world problems or situations where the instructor directs and  facilitates learning. The classroom, laboratory,   or field can serve as a  setting for experiential learning through embedded activities such as  case and problem - based studies, guided inquiry, simulations, or  experiments (definition adapted from Wurdinger & Carlson, 2010 ).  Students completing the General Education Natural Sciences  requirement will be able to:  1.   Explain the process of science and its role in society.  2.   Apply scientific principles to explain the natural world.  3.   Engage in science by applying its principles through experiential  learning.  4.   Communicate science in an evidence - based way verbally and in  writing.

8  DIVERSE AMERICAN PERSPECTIVES  SLOs  Students completing the General Education Diverse American  Perspectives requirement will be able to:  1.   Describe the various factors that contribute to the construction  of social identities   in American society.  2.   Analyze struggles over freedom, equality, equity, justice, and  power within American society.  3.   Critically examine the historical context of significant issues and  events in America.  GLOBAL PERSPECTIVES  SLOs  Students completing the General Education Global Perspectives  requirement will be   able to:  1.   Articulate knowledge about an area of the world, country, or  region within a country, placing it within a global context  involving individual, societal, cultural, economic, and/or political  relationships.   (Knowledge)  2.   Analyze and evaluate diverse perspectives, including their own,  to experiences and legacies within a global context outside of  their society.   (Perspective)  3.   Compare diverse perspectives, including their own experiences  and legacies within a global context outside of their own society.  (Comparison)  4.   Apply critical, moral, and ethical analyses to issue of global  concern that they have identified, drawing on multiple  perspectives such as inequality, economic status, identity,  gender, class, ideology, ethnicity, and power relations.  (Application)

9  EXPLORING ARTISTIC WORKS  Additional Information   SLOs  Students will analyze significant theatrical, visual, literary, and/or  performative works, with a primary focus on artistic form and content.  Students will   learn the characteristics of disciplinary genres relevant to  the subject matter and become familiar with cultural and historical  factors that shape artistic works. They will apply concepts of critical  analysis and draw connections between artistic works an d relevant  cultural issues.  Students completing the General Education Exploring Artistic Works  requirement will be able to:  1.   Analyze works of artistic production (theatrical, visual, literary,  and/or performative) through inquiry - driven critical  interpretation.  2.   Recognize and interrogate the relation between artistic works  and their historical and cultural context.  3.   Evaluate multiple points of view relating to artistic works.  4.   Apply discipline - specific vocabulary and frameworks to critical  discussions of artistic works.  CREATIVITY AND MAKING  Additional Information   SLOs  1.   More than 50% of coursework must be devoted to the  production of a body of creative work. While the creative  process may require the viewing, interpretation or analysis of  existing works, course activity must be weighted towards  students participating in producing original creative work within  the discipline they are studying. A significant amount of class  time should be devoted to workshopping, critique, studio time,  practi ce, or creative exercises.  2.   Assignments must emphasize the creative process in an  iterative manner via the creation, attempts at improvement, and  reflection on multiple versions of an artifact or technique.  Coursework must reinforce the foundational process of  iteration, recognizing   that professional creative work is derived  from recursive methods and not singular transactions. This may  manifest in multiple ways, for example: a major assignment that  requires the formal submission of two or more drafts/versions  of an artifact; small ex ercises designed to contribute to refining  a technique/process to be applied in a major assignment; one  Students completing the General Education Creativity and Making  requirement will be able to:  1.   Develop a tool kit within the specified creative discipline,  including craft vocabulary techniques, and ways of  experimenting with the invention of forms, processes, actions,  or ideas.  2.   Make a body of original creative output by applying appropriate  discipline - specific techniques and strategies.  3.   Articulate conceptual understanding of creative practices via  reflection on a body of creative output produced throughout  the course.  4.   Analyze and evaluate their own work and the work of peers and  professionals through the application of discipline - specific  vocabulary in written and/or oral analysis and critique.

10  complex artifact/project broken up into multiple smaller stages  or components over the course of the semester.  3.   Coursework or course discussion must encourage students to  make connections between the creative process in this  discipline and other facets of the students’ education and  vocation. As a general education requirement, instructors  should recognize that stud ents in the course will likely not  pursue the creative discipline as a vocation. Therefore, to make  the coursework truly valuable, instructors must be vigilant  about explicitly aiding students in identifying opportunities  where the creative process learned   in this course might transfer  to activity in their respective majors.  4.   Students must participate in the local creative community via  attending one or more events related to the discipline being  studied. Co - curricular programming allows students to enrich  their creative process by experiencing professional examples  within the   discipline they are studying, and provides  opportunities for critique, comparison, and analysis in the  classroom. These may includ e : attending a performance,  lecture, reading, exhibition, etc.  WRITING RICH MISSION MARKERS  Additional   Information   Requirements  St. Edward’s University is committed to developing students who are  “able to express themselves articulately in both oral and written form,”  and Writing - Rich courses ensure students are writing in a variety of  courses across the Hilltop. Faculty at St. Edw ard’s are committed to  idea that writing is an integral part of learning across disciplines. Writing  and research is not restricted to “writing” courses. Therefore, writing -  rich courses build on and extend work students began in their Year 1  and Year 2 “wr iting” courses by reinforcing writing as a process,  including the significant roles that feedback and revision play in  effective writing. These courses often introduce students to the process  of learning to write effectively in discipline - specific formats   and styles  by helping them make writing choices appropriate for particular  1.   Courses may receive the Writing - Rich (WR) designation after  approval by a cross - disciplinary, university - wide   committee  composed of full - time faculty members, which will include  representation from each school. The committee will evaluate  the assignments integrated into the curriculum, using the  following requirements:  2.   A Writing - Rich course must carry at least three units of credit  and must be taken for a letter grade.  3.   A Writing - Rich course will schedule writing assignments for  regular intervals throughout the term.  a.   May include multiple short papers or larger projects.

11  discourse communities. Writing - Rich courses may be completed by  students in general education and major courses. Students must  complete two (2) Writing - Rich courses to fulfill their general education  requirements: one (1) at any level and one (1) at either   the 3000 -   or  4000 - level.  b.   May include papers, posters, lab   reports, web pages,  and other formats and types of writing appropriate to the  course or discipline.  c.   May be components of one large writing project or  several smaller papers, or some combination of the two.  Informal, ungraded, writing assignments may also be  used to help students create one polished piece of  writing.  4.   A Writing - Rich course will offer students feedback on their  writing.  a.   This feedback will take place through faculty written (or  recorded) comments or individual conferences and may  also be supplemented by feedback from peer review;  class conferences; writing workshops; use of a teaching  assistant; or other opportunities to d iscuss a writing  assignment with the faculty member teaching the  course .  5.   A Writing - Rich course will use feedback on   student writing to  emphasize the process of revision.  a.   Students will complete at least one substantive revision  (i.e., not just copyediting) of a writing project based on  feedback provided in the course.  b.   These revisions may include rewriting to improve a  grade; producing successive drafts; polishing a paper for  an on -   or off - campus conference or publication; or other  discipline - specific approaches as approved by the  university - wide committee.

12  EXPERIENTIAL LEARNING FOR SOCIAL JUSTICE MISSION   MARKER  Additional Information   SLOs  These courses or other experiences have a significant social justice  and experiential learning component. The flag can be satisfied in  approved courses within the curriculum (gen ed or the majors) or  through   approved co - curricular experiences (with specific and  significant learning and assessment guidelines).  Defining Experiential Learning for Social Justice  Experiential Learning for Social Justice involves engaging students in  contexts outside of the classroom in which they will broaden and  deepen their awareness of social problems and participate in  community - based activities that address these issues.  At their best, courses designated as Experiential Learning for Social  Justice (EL4SJ) should reflect St. Edward’s Holy Cross Mission by  pursuing academic excellence through experiential learning that uses  any of the following approaches:  ●   Service - learning  ●   Research with faculty  ●   Internship or field experience  ●   Immersive domestic or international travel experiences  1. Students apply knowledge developed through the course to engage  with social justice issues. EL4SJ courses explore social justice through  any of the following lenses:  ●   Interrogate the ways existing social, economic, and cultural  institutions contribute to and maintain inequality,  ●   Honor the value of students’ lived experiences, critically  support their identities, and help them clarify personal  values  ●   Promote sensitivity to and knowledge about oppression and  cultural and ethnic diversity through   drawing on a diverse  set of voices and perspectives  ●   Be rooted in movements and the fight for social equity  2. Students carry out a social justice project that engages with a local  community. EL4SJ courses engage with the community in one of the  following ways:  ●   Learning with the community — Students apply their  knowledge and skills from the classroom to address a  challenge in a specific community.  ●   Researching with the community — Students work with the  community on a joint project where the community’s  knowledge is integrated and amplified by student research.  ●   Knowledge sharing with the community — Students share  disciplinary knowledge with the community in order to further  the well – being, aspirational goals, rights, etc. of the  community.  ●   Including practitioners as teachers — Students learn from the  practical knowledge and specific expertise of community  members invited into the classroom or out in the field. Note:  Community members engaged as instructors should be  recognized for their knowle dge and properly compensated.  ●   Social innovation by student — Students devise a new  strategy, product, process, etc. to address a social need in a  specific community.

13  3. Students reflect on how community - based, social justice work  shapes their understanding of the course material and their values, and  how it relates to a liberal arts education at St. Edward’s University.  SOCIAL IDENTITIES   MISSION MARKER  Additional Information   SLOs  Other requirements for Social Identities Courses:  A significant amount of the Social   Identities Curriculum Component  identity must relate directly to the   SLOs.  The Social Identities Mission Marker must be taken after successful  completion of Diverse American Perspectives.  1.   Diverse American Perspectives Curriculum Component is a  prerequisite to the Social Identities Curriculum Component; not  to be taken concurrently.  2.   The Diverse American Perspectives and Social Identities  Mission Marker should be conceptualized as scaffolded. The  Social Identities curriculum component is expected to build on  the Diverse American Perspectives Component.  3.   Students should be made aware that they can take more than  one required Social Identities CC course in various majors and  disciplines.  Student Learning Outcomes:  Students completing the   General Education Social Identities Mission  Marker requirement will be able to   do ONE of the following:  1.   Express ways in which the intersection of social identities such  as race, ethnicity, class, sexual orientation, gender identities  (SOGI), ability, national origin,   religion, and other identities  influence individual life experiences and/or perspectives.  2.   Integrate, synthesize, and apply course content about  underrepresented cultures in both focused and broad  interdisciplinary contexts as defined in requirement #1.  3.   Articulate an awareness and compare some of the central  historical and present diversity issues addressed in the course  including race, ethnicity, class, sexual orientation, gender  identities (SOGI), ability, national origin, religion, or other  identities.  4.   Demonstrate knowledge of the history, customs, worldviews,  and/or other cultural markers of two or more groups of minority  status either within the United States or of national origin  outside of the United States.